what of my people - very simple but very
fundamental points that come up in vegan
activism again and again covent
discussions of who is vegan and who is
not who is vegan and who was merely
plant-based what does it mean to be
vegan and what does it mean to be an
activist I had a conversation
spontaneous conversation day with some
older more experienced vegans people who
were 30 40 50 years old and basically
everything in this video I said
spontaneously in that form or that
debate earlier today obviously in a
different format that was a dialogue
rather than a fog um I have also seen
YouTube videos from time to time just a
few times over the last five years I
have seen YouTube videos making the case
that veganism is negative or is a
negative virtue or is defined negatively
so their point being that from their
perspective veganism is only the absence
of doing harm veganism is only the
refusal to buy meat to buy leather to
buy dairy etc that it's only abstaining
from doing something bad that isn't do
it it isn't a positive good act it isn't
a positive movement now I actually
disagree with that view thus I'm making
this video share perspective with you
now as you're gonna see and I think also
in this video see why that is not a
merely academic philosophical or
theoretical point but really is worth
being clear about a little bit of
bureaucracy before I proceed I'm
recording this on October 28th 2018 and
I'm sharing it as a patreon exclusive
video that means I am only gonna share
the link with people who donate one
dollar a month to support this channel
on patreon but if you see this video you
can share the link with other people if
this is something you want to discuss
with your boyfriend your girlfriend your
worst enemy on earth your boss at work
you can share this link and you can have
that conversation because I think that's
part of the reason people watch YouTube
videos people do not watch YouTube
videos to make themselves feel more
isolated they watch youtube videos to
bring themselves bring
bring themselves together and debate
with with other people so feel free to
share the link I will probably make this
link public approximately one year after
it was recorded so it'll be exclusive
for about a year to thank the supporters
I have a patreon and of course did not
even answer question you guys are
interacting this way okay so with all
that having been said fundamentally I
reject this idea that veganism is fully
is entirely negative in the sense is
merely abstaining from something evil it
is also not negative in the sense that
non-smokers as a category would only be
defined by abstaining from smoking or
just the happenstance that they don't
smoke because remember the category of
non-smokers includes people who used to
smoke cigarettes and you quit smoking it
includes people who took some kind of
ethical position they may be they may be
really opposed to smoking they may be
adamantly opposed as mowing and it will
include people who just buy haven't they
never even thought about it they never
made any decision they just they never
tried it they were never interested they
smelled it and didn't like the smell it
didn't like taste it just never killed
them there are you know so you can talk
about non-smokers
as a category and then you talk about
the non-smoking movement or anti-smoking
movement or organizations that are
really trying to marginalize and
eliminate smoking step by step make the
percentage of people who smoke
cigarettes in our society fewer and
fewer until eventually this this
disappears entirely that's a real-world
scenario that has the type of problems
vegans are complaining about when they
complain that veganism is entirely
negative in its definition or negative
in its nature now I say this first
because I think it illustrates in a more
profound way the difference between
people who are vegan and people who are
plant-based and I've never heard anyone
else said this before for me the
difference between vegan and plant-based
is not the difference between ethical
veganism and health based veganism
veganism proper it's never going to be
satisfied with merely a personal
decision to be vegan I would point out
that there was something
Blissett not stated in the vegan
society's definition of veganism that
makes the decision to be vegan very
different from the decision to wear a
yellow shirt or a purple shirt you may
have a personal preference that you only
want to wear the color pink you want to
wear pink shirts for the rest of your
life that's the fashion choices it's a
decision you made if you made that
decision if that's your preference are
you now gonna try to convince your
brother your sister and your dad to wear
pink shirts all the time why would you
if anything and maybe dis haven't ate
used to you it may be that for you your
distinctive fashion choice is wearing
pink and you don't want to go to the
office and have everyone else wearing a
pink business shirt also only you want
to picture it this way um implicit but
important within veganism is the fact
that you will not be satisfied with just
your own personal virtue your own
personal choice to live a vegan
lifestyle that you will inevitably in
inexorably want your own sister want
your own father want your own husband or
wife to eat a vegan diet also to abstain
from buying leather so on and so forth
this is often unstated but in the
conversation I had the day with these
older vegan activist I think it's
interesting that all of them immediately
realize the truth of what I was saying
and several people were marked oh they
had never thought of that before but
yeah that is actually unstated and
implicit part of of what veganism really
is now by contrast I think it is
entirely possible for someone to be
plant-based and you genuinely not care
if 99% of humanity continues to kill
cows and pigs on a daily basis continues
to despoil the world's climate destroy
our water resources have these terrible
ecological impacts destroy their own
health have higher rates of heart attack
and diabetes etc obesity all these
disadvantages it is possible to be
plant-based and be indifferent to the
fact that your own brother and your own
sister are eating steak tartare for
dinner
our reading hamburgers and french fries
and these these other things that's
possible but I think we have to admit to
ourselves that it's actually impossible
if you're vegan that there's a profound
incompatibility of veganism with
accepting that you know quite likely 99%
of the people around you are eating meat
and drinking dairy milk so the nature of
the rejection here is not the same as
the rejection of smoking cigarettes and
the nature of the selection is not the
same as selecting to wear a pink shirt
selecting to wear a yellow shirt so on
and so forth I think it's useful to say
just a few more words about why this
question arose in the conversation at
all I think you will soon see why it has
broader implications conversation began
with a complaint about the vegan
society's definition leaving too many
gray areas and these gray areas were
largely thought of in terms of diet and
practice so using the official standard
definition of veganism it allows some
wiggle room for interpretation and they
weren't happy with this my
counter-argument was as follows here in
Canada our most successful political
party is called the Liberal Party do
they proceed with a very refined very
exclusive definition of what liberalism
is of what it is to be a liberal no it's
a fascinating and bizarre fact that the
Liberal Party of Canada they do not in
their constitution ever define
liberalism who is a liberal and who is
not it's up to you what does the word
liberal mean up to you if you go to a
Liberal Party conference or picnic or
event
you're gonna meet different people who
maybe have profoundly different
understandings of what liberalism is
supposed to be what they aspire to is
that a strength or a weakness in
politics that kind of definition is a
strength further it's interesting to
note that political parties when they
find themselves they tend to rely on a
few negative definitions just a few
points a few hard limits so for example
the Liberal Party of Canada has a
declaration that they're opposed to
homophobia they have a definition of the
the limits of religion church and state
within the party has ever called they
have a think a broad anti-racist
position and I forget if if they ever
did formally codify their position on
abortion so that the abortion debate
wasn't being dealt with him soon within
the party a few few things like that at
any given time in the United States of
America I think there may be formally or
informally a few points like this that's
set down what it means to be a
Republican in contrast to what it means
to be a Democrat negatively what
ultimately is excluded what is there not
and again in politics this is an
advantage this is a strength not a
weakness and I think there are different
people for whom what does republicanism
mean what does democracy mean what does
it mean to be a liberal what does it
mean to be a conservative it's different
from person to person I think different
people are making different compromises
in order to support that party at
different times and historically it can
change dramatically from one decade to
the next sometimes it changes
dramatically from one election to the
next I think if you live in a Western
democracy you are familiar with this
aspect of politics so a negative
definition that leaves a lot of gray
areas can be an advantage in politics
whereas I think we all know it would be
a disadvantage if we were defining a
diet when we talk about a diet we have
to be very clear can you eat chocolate
or no if you can't eat chocolate can you
eat something that is artificial
chocolate flavoring or no you're gonna
get down to real specifics how many
grams of carbohydrates and how many
grams of fat and how many hours between
meals it's true the definition of a diet
is going to be precise but it's
interesting to know that the definition
of political movements they generally
avoid ideology they avoid
actually even drawing a party line for
people to tow they try to create an
inclusive rallying point across roads
that people can gather at with very
different assumptions now are there
disadvantages to this yes there are
disadvantages I think a lot of people
probably feel demoralized showing up at
a Liberal Party event and feeling they
have nothing in common with other people
there I think that probably in many ways
it removes the dynamism and passion that
you see in small nonprofit charities and
organizations it removes that from large
what are called big tent political
organizations that people feel that this
is a meaningless and Hollow movement if
they do something like like join the
Liberal Party there there are
disadvantages and there are you know
degrees of alienation from vegan to
vegan that are important to reflect on
for me even though it was silent and
implicit when I was with my girlfriend
in in Los Angeles there was there was
such a sense of alienation from between
us and one of the restaurants who went
to the restaurant managers and the
restaurant employees there's a
restaurant there in Los Angeles that's
infamously linked to a New Age religious
group a spiritual group what if you want
to say and their reasons for being a
vegan and their idea of veganism and
what it's all about which are even
obvious on the menu you know you even
see it in reading the menu that's it's
really profoundly alienating from us and
I've of course now had hundreds of
interactions with other vegans where I
find out you know how little we have in
common how little common ground we have
and yet we share this definition with
all of its gray areas we share some
common aspiration to make the world a
better place how we do that how we move
forward it's genuinely contestable but I
don't think the next step forward is to
have a stricter definition that is going
to exclude other people from
participating for the last five years
I've been trying to recruit talent and
I've got to tell you even with this
incredibly broad incredibly vague
definition
with all of its gray areas and its look
but the predominant concept of veganism
being merely negative and so easy to
practice let me tell you folks talent is
scarce getting five people together who
can lobby city hall or five people who
can sit around a round table and record
a YouTube video it's amazing to me how
difficult that's been to organize
whereas I see comic book enthusiasts
Star Wars enthusiasts video game
enthusiasts with ease organizing huge
events roundtable discussions and
sometimes even protests even you know
kind of mock political events you know
they protest that against the company
making the Star Wars movies because they
thought the last Star Wars movie was so
bad and even if they're doing tends to
choke or with a sense of fun and a sense
of detachment even have a look at the
conferences and events that are
organized by fans of Game of Thrones the
Song of Ice and Fire it's humbling if we
weren't humble enough as a movement take
a good look and get humbled because
there are a lot of people out there who
are getting much better results starting
from a much weaker premise and the lack
of motivation the lack of good faith
public spirited effort to make the world
a better place within veganism I don't
know man what are you gonna tell your
grandkids what are you gonna tell your
grandkids that you did back in the year
2018 when the polar icecaps hadn't
melted yet